docs (notifications): usage and style guidance for Callout (#4218)
carbon-design-system/carbon-website: src/pages/components/notification/usage.mdx

</Column>
</Row>

<br />

<Title> Deciding what to use </Title>

| Status        | Usage                                                                                                                        | Color  | Icon                 |
| ------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------ | -------------------- |
| Informational | Provide additional information to users that may not be tied to their current action or task                                 | Blue   | `information filled` |
| Success\*     | Confirm a task was completed as expected                                                                                     | Green  | `checkmark filled`   |
| Warning       | Inform users that they are taking actions that are not desirable or might have unexpected results                            | Yellow | `warning filled`     |
| Error\*       | Inform users of an error or critical failure and optionally block the user from proceeding until the issue has been resolved | Red    | `error filled`       |

> \*[Callout](#callout) does not include success and error statuses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>\*[Callout](#callout) does not include success and error statuses.</Caption>
```

stacking them together. Callout should be used sparingly to emphasize
information that must not be overlooked. For all other content, use a standard
text component.

#### Placement

Callouts are related to a particular page element and should be positioned near
it to associate them more effectively.

- **With button or input:** If important information affects an action, place
  the callout above the relevant button or input. This highlighted message
  ensures that users feel confident about their action before proceeding.
- **With data or information:** Place the callout contextually, either before or
  after the data being viewed by users, depending on what fits best.
- **With inline notification:** When a callout and an inline notification need
  to coexist during a part of the user journey, move the callout upward and
  position the short-lived notification closer to the button or input that
  triggered it.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of callout placement](images/notification-usage-calloutplacement.png)

<Caption>
  Example of how a callout is placed when an inline error notification appears
</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

> #### Dismissal

Author: Dismissal, Links and Actions should be H3. This is essential to differentiate them for the other h4 headings under the formatting image. I will make this correction.

### Dismissal

> Actionable notification, persist by default until a user dismiss them. If using

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Actionable notifications persist by default until a user dismisses them. If using
```

> inline styling refer to [inline notifications](#inline-notifications) for inline

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
inline styling, refer to [inline notifications](#inline-notifications) for inline
```

dismissal. If using toast styling for an actionable notification, then the
notification should remain on screen until the user dismisses it. With the
notification remaining open, the user has enough time to interact with the
button without the toast closing too soon. Refer to
[toast notifications](#toast-notifications) for further information.

### Links

If needed, actionable notifications can contain links. Links within an
actionable notification can be used to redirect the user to next steps.

### Actions

If needed, actionable notifications can include a ghost button for inline
notifications or a tertiary button for toasts. These action buttons enable users
to address the notification or navigate to a page for more details.

## Callout

Callouts are used to highlight important information contextually within the
contents of the page, and cannot be dismissed. Unlike other notification

> components they are not triggered by the user or system, rather load with the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
components they are not triggered by the user or system, rather they load with the
```

flow while reading through the information. Use a title only if it makes it
easier for people to scan through the content without diverting focus from the
task.

#### Sizing

The width of callout varies based on content and layout. They can expand to fill
the container or content area they relate to. Their height is based on the
content length.

#### Alignment

Avoid overloading a single page with multiple callouts, and refrain from
stacking them together. Callout should be used sparingly to emphasize
information that must not be overlooked. For all other content, use a standard
text component.

#### Placement

Callouts are related to a particular page element and should be positioned near
it to associate them more effectively.

- **With button or input:** If important information affects an action, place
  the callout above the relevant button or input. This highlighted message
  ensures that users feel confident about their action before proceeding.
- **With data or information:** Place the callout contextually, either before or
  after the data being viewed by users, depending on what fits best.
- **With inline notification:** When a callout and an inline notification need

>   to coexist during a part of the user journey, move the callout upward and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  to coexist during a part of the user journey, move the callout above the inline notification and
```

  position the short-lived notification closer to the button or input that
  triggered it.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of callout placement](images/notification-usage-calloutplacement.png)

<Caption>
  Example of how a callout is placed when an inline error notification appears
</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

### Dismissal

Unlike other notifications, callouts do not dismiss because they are used to
highlight important information for the user that cannot be dismissed. They are
always present on the screen and load with the contents of the page.

### Links

If needed, callouts can contain links. Links on callout should be used only when
it provides additional context or relevant information necessary for the current
user journey. It should not be used to promote navigation to a separate user
journey.

### Actions

> Unlike actionable notifications, callouts do not have action button of their

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unlike actionable notifications, callouts do not contain an action button of their
```
